 
 
                                                                 Aws key points

    what is cloud comping

	Types Cloud computing services models

      i)  IAS(Infrastructure as a service)
	  ii) PASS(Platform as a service)
	  iii)SASS (SOFTWARE as a service) 
	  
	i)  IAS(Infrastructure as a service)
	  
	  It provides access to d=fundamental resources such as physical machines, virtual machines, virtual storage etc,   example: amazon web services ,azure services , go-grid
        =>Iaas  also offers	:
                             virtual machine disk storage ,virtual local area network(vlans) ,load balancers ,Ip addresses ,software bundles
           => all these resources are available to end uses via server virtualization 
	   
	ii) PASS(Platform as a service)
	    
		Pass provides the runtime environment for applications,development & deployment tools etc .  It is using the infrastructure(IAAS) to develop the products
		developer  are created ide (Integrated development environment)  is pass
		pass provides the facilities required to support the complete life cycle of building & delivering web applications and services entirely from the  Internet
		
		ex: App engines of google    ,force.com ,joyenet , azme
	

	
    iii)SASS (SOFTWARE as a service)

    
	Cloud computing Deployment Models
	  
	  i)   Public
	  ii)  Private
	  iii) Hybrid

    Types of instances                                (*In aws terms servers are called as instances)
	 
	 On demand instances
	 Reserved instances
	 Scheduled reserved instances
	 Spot instances
	 
  on demand instances:
	 1.This instance is one which we usually create.
	 2.There is no time Commitment
	 3.No advance payment.
	 4.You only need to pay for hours which you used
	 5.Highest cost as there is no commitment.
	
  Reserved instances
	1. For these ,instance there is a time commitment. you buy it for a time frame such as 3/6 Months or 1/3 Year
	2you need to purchase it via console and it will automatically get applied on your on Demand instances if you are using any of same configuration.
	3.various payment option like all upfront, No upfront or Partial upfront ,No upfront or Partial upfront
	4.you get a good discount like 30% to 70 %
	
  Spot instances:
	1.These instance are cheapest one and good for small duration like few hours to few days only.
	2.Work on bid pricing means you put a bid for instances, and if that instance is available under bid price , it is available for you and if bid price goes higher,Aws will pull the instances automatically.
    3.Good for one who want to use high processing power at low price and need for minimum duration.

  Dedicated Instances
    1.Costlier than default shared Instances
    2.Give better performance as alloted CPU and Memory is not shared with other clients.  
	
1)  Ec2                                                                                                              
     
	 
	 a) Instance launching
	   while launching instance following 7 steps 
       1) Choose ami
	      Here choose the required os type (amazon linux64 ,redhat86,ubunt ,Windows servers2k16)
	   
       2) choose instance type
	      Here choose instance configuration type, cpu's , memory ...
		   
	   3) configure instance
          here choose Number of instances , Purchasing option , Network (vpc) ,Subnet () ,IAM role , Shutdown behavior , Monitoring , Tenancy , Advanced Details 
	   
	   4) Add storage
	      Here if you want to  add the extra volume for current configuring instance ,add the volume here
		  
	   5) Add tags
          Here if you want to tagging  the instance          

	   
	   6) configure security group
	      Here choose the creating security group or existing security group  for current configuring instance 
	   
	   7) Review
	      You can go back to edit changes for each section. Click Launch to assign a key pair to your instance and complete the launch process.
		  
		  select an existing key-pair or creating new key-pair 


	
    B) Configure instance type 
        
		increasing or decreasing the instance capacity  (t2.micro to Large )	 
     
	 
	C) Elastic ip
	           
			   Assign the private ip  to instance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
    D) Elastic block storage 
        
		Adding    Extra-storage
		Removing Extra-storage
		
    
	E) Snap shot creation
          
		  Snapshot is nothing but  it is a copy of existing elastic block storage backup at the time 
		  Taking backup custom Elastic block Storage 	
    
	F) Snap shot &volume creation      
          
		  Snapshot using to  volume creation
		  
		  Snapshot using to  image creation
		  
		  
		  
		  snapshot using to copy volume backup in different locations
		  
	G)Region copying snapshots   or Cross region copying        
     
	     snapshot using to copy volume backup in different  regions and they are using to  volume creation 
		
	     custom ami using other regions in instances creation
	     click on actions -- copy -- choose destination regions   and image name, description ,
		 click on modify permissions --- give the other aws a/c number
	
	H)Life cycle Manager                      
      
       automation of snapshots creation by scheduled time
	   
	   It using to creating snapshots scheduled time with tags 

	   
    I)Ami creation   
      
      custom ami  creation using with existing Ami instance 	  
    
    J)Region copying amis  or Cross region copying
    
	 custom ami using other regions in instances creation
	 click on actions -- copy ami -- choose destination regions   and image name, description ,
  
                                                            
    K)Elastic load balancer                      
     i)  classic ELB
     ii) Application ELB
     iii)Network ELB
     Iv ) Target groups

    L)Auto scaling
     
	 Lunch configuration 
     Auto scaling Target groups
	
	
	
2)Vpc & Networking
	 
	  Security groups'
	  
	  NACL
	  
	  Key-pairs
	  
	  Network interfaces

    Vpc
        sub-netting
        Route tables
        Internet-gateway
        Nat  Gate way
     
    Vpc peering
      
	  i)another a/c	 
      ii)another Region
	  
3) Identity access management 
	   
	   users
	   
	   groups
	   
	   select aws Access types
	   
	   Roles
	   
4)Simple storage service (S3)
	  
	 a) s3 bucket creation
	  
	 b) versioning
	 
	 c) s3 life-cycle
	 
	 d) life-cycle rules
	 
	 e) static Web hosting
	 
	 f) Logging
	 
	 g) Events 
	 
	 
5)Rout53 
	  
	  Route 53 configuring process
	  
	  
	  AWS console ----> go to services -----> Rout53
	  
	  step1 
	       create  the Hosted Zone
		   hosted zone are classified into 2 types
           1)Public hosted zone
           2)Private hosted zone
           
	Public hosted zone process
       click on create hosted 
	   ----> Domain name :rvinfo.tk
       Comment  : about the domain
	   
	It will be redirected to newly created Hosted zone 
	In this hosted you will able see all  4  name servers(NS) details  and Start of authority(SOA)
	
	
	   
                                       									   
      


		   
	  
	  domain name rvinfo.tk
	  
	  ns-2029.awsdns-61.co.uk. 
      ns-15.awsdns-01.com. 
      ns-1359.awsdns-41.org. 
      ns-700.awsdns-23.net.
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
6)	  RDS installing and configuring

7)Terraforms	

     CloudFormation and Terraform do not only allow you to create your infrastructure from scratch automatically. You can use both tools to update your infrastructure later as well. 
	 Terraform provides a command named plan which gives you a very detailed overview of what will be modified if you apply your blueprint.


	
8)Cloud watch
       
	 a) Cloud watch configuration	  
	 b) simple notification service (sns)
     c) simple notification service (sns)
	 d) simple message service (sms)
     e) alerts creation
	 
	 
	 
	Amazon simple queue service (Amazon SQS) is a reliable,highly-scable hosted queue for storing messages they travel between applications or micro services.
     
	Amazon sqs moves data between distributed application components help you decouple these components.
     
	Amazon simple queue service(SQS) is a fully manged messages queuing service that makes it easy to decouple and micro services, distributed systems and server-less applications.
    
	Building applications from individual components that each perform a discrete function improves scalability, and is best practice design for modern applications.
	
	SQS makes it simple and cost-effective to decouple and coordinate the components of a cloud application.
    
	Using SQS, you can send,store,and receive messages between software components at any volume,without losing messages or requiring other services to be always available pull base systems
    
	SQS standard queues offer maximum throughput, best-effort ordering, and at-least-once delivery. 
	
	SQS FIFO queues are designed to guarantee that messages are processed exactly once. 
	
	In the exact order that they are sent,with limited throughput, you can get started with sqs in a matter of minutes using the aws console or SDK of you choice and just three simple commands . 
	
	Sqs lets you eliminate the complexity and overhead associated with managing and operating dedicated messaging software and infrastructure.
  
  
  
  amazon simple queue service (Amazon SQS) is a reliable,highly-scable hosted queue for storing messages they travel between applications or micro services.
Amazon sqs moves data between distributed application components help you decouple these components.
amazon simple queue service(SQS) is a fully manged messages queuing service that makes it easy to decouple and micro services, distributed systems.
and server-less applications.Building applications from individual components that each perform a discrete function improves scalability, and is best practice 
design for modern applications.SQS makes it simple and cost-effective to decouple and coordinate the components of a cloud application.
using SQS, you can send,store,and receive messages between software components at any volume,without losing messages or requiring other services to be always available
   pull base systems
SQS standard queues offer maximum throughput, best-effort ordering, and at-least-once delivery. SQS FIFO queues are designed to guarantee that messages are processed exactly once.
in the exact order that they are sent,with limited throughput,you can get started with sqs in a matter of minutes using the aws console or SDK of you choice and 
just three simple commands . Sqs lets you eliminate the complexity and overhead associated with managing and operating dedicated messaging software and infrastructure. 
